Federico Cámara Halac has a PhD in Music Theory and Composition from New York University (NYU, 2013-2019) where he studied with Jaime Oliver and Elizabeth Hoffman and holds a Licenciate in Music Composition from the National University of Córdoba (UNC, 2006-2012). From 2019 to 2021 he was a postdoctoral researcher in Immersive Audio at the Center for Advanced Computing for the Arts and Design (ACCAD) at The Ohio State University (OSU).
His music and research focuses on multimedia performance, spatialization, and the intersection between audio and machine learning, with an emphasis on the role of the database in musical composition. He then makes digital instruments for live performance using signal analysis and processing with Pure Data. In addition, he designs immersive sonic experiences both for multichannel systems and for headphone listening. At the same time, he investigates the applications of unsupervised learning techniques involving audio and image analysis. Thus, he designs and theorizes about multimedia database systems that explore the relationships between sound, image, space, and performance. All his research, music and code is openly available.
His work has been performed in international conferences and festivals such as NYCEMF; ICMC; the Teheran International Music Week in Iran; Virginia Tech's CUBE Fest in Blacksburg; IRCAM's Manifeste Festival in Paris; Delian Academy for New Music in Mykonos; Mixtur Festival in Barcelona; among others. Some recognitions include the MacCracken Fellowship (New York); the Dean's Dissertation Fellowship (Berlin); two Graduate Research Initiative grants (Paris and Florence); the Student's Senators Council (Shanghai); and the Programa Cuarto Centenario grant from the National University of Córdoba to study at l'Université de Montréal (Québec). He has collaborated and performed with ensembles such as TAK; loadbang; Talea; RAGE Thormbones; and Iktus Percussion; among others. He is also a founding member of Proyecto[Red]Ensamble (2010-2014), a Córdoba-based experimental music collective, and Waverly Project, a NYC-based new music collective (2014-2019).